Good morning and welcome to the
session on certificates in Mac OS X.
I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm Apple's security and
cryptography technology evangelist.
Today we're going to talk about,
to some degree,
our common data security architecture
with particular interest on what we're
doing to improve access to certificates.
There's a number of new
APIs that are coming in Jaguar
that will make this easier.
There's changes to Keychain.
And as I said, we're going to improve the
certificate functionality.
To start that off,
I'd like to bring out Ken McLeod,
a senior software engineer
in the data security group.
Thanks very much.
Thanks, Craig.
The session is a little bit badly named.
It's not just about certificates,
like as Craig said.
It's also going to talk a little
bit about keychain and where we are
with that and how they tie together.
And we'll talk a little bit
about things like access control
on items in your keychain,
access control on keys, and trusting,
being able to trust a certificate and
how you do certificate management.
Oops.
So I'm going to start off, first of all,
with an overview of CDSA.
For those of you, hopefully,
who were in the last session,
some of these things may
be familiar concepts.
Then we'll spend some time talking
about the kind of functionality that's
provided by the security framework.
This is the open source
framework that's part of Darwin,
where all these functions sort of live.
And, of course,
we'll talk about certificates and
how you use them to establish trust
and how you can store certificates
in a keychain and the integration
between keychain and certificates.
I do have to press this hard, don't I?
So the common data-security
architecture is something that's
been part of OS X since day one.
It's the foundation on which all
of the security services are built.
And it's a modular architecture,
which means that the functionality
that's provided can be just
plugged into the backend of it.
There are four basic types of
modules that plug into CDSA.
A CSP, or cryptographic service provider,
provides all the
encryption functionality,
so all the encryption
algorithms live there.
Data libraries give you all
the data storage functionality.
They act as your database API.
A certificate library is a
module that knows how to parse
certificates and pull them apart.
And a trust policy module is the
code that actually lets you make
decisions involving certificates.
For example,
would I trust this certificate to
do-- SSL and make an SSL connection
versus would I use the
certificate to encrypt something?
So all of this functionality lives under
an umbrella set of APIs called CSSM,
the Common Security Services Manager.
And the neat thing about this API is
that once you've written code to it,
you can replace any of
those modules underneath it
without affecting your code.
So you don't have to rewrite your
code in order to take advantage of,
for example,
if a CSP is replaced and it provides
a stronger encryption algorithm,
or if a DL is replaced and it
suddenly gives you access to LDAP or,
for example,
storing things on smart cards.
So the API sort of transparently lets
those things happen under the hood.
So the API is that bar that runs across
the second from the bottom layer,
the CSSM bar.
The plugins go underneath that.
Above CSSM,
we've tried to provide some higher
level layered services that make
these CSSM things easier to use.
So, for example,
we have a certificate API that
lets you deal with certificates
in a little bit easier fashion.
In the earlier session,
Murph talked to you about the SSL API,
secure transport,
that's also built into this.
So, at the top level,
applications have their choice of
whether they want to use some of
these higher level layered services or
whether you want to drill down and get
into CDSA itself and use the CSSM APIs.
You have your choice there.
Disk copy, for example, uses--
[Transcript missing]
So why would you use CDSA at that level?
Some of the things that are
provided there are basic
building blocks of encryption.
It allows you to generate keys,
both symmetric keys and a
public/private key pair.
If you need to do encryption,
the earlier session had an example of
how you would use CDSA to encrypt data.
CDSA provides a whole
bunch of algorithms,
the Advanced Encryption
Standard and a number of others.
There's far too many to list, actually.
It lets you digest data or hash it
using the standard hash algorithms.
It provides data storage and retrieval,
easy APIs to have a place
to store and retrieve data.
One really interesting area of
functionality in CDSA that Perry is
going to talk to you about a little later
is the whole area of access control.
You can specify when items
can be used and have a very
fine level of control on that.
The other area, of course,
is the ability to parse certificates.
Apple provides a X.509
certificate parsing library,
but it's by no means limited to that.
Certainly the architecture allows
for any kind of certificate
module to be plugged in.
This is just, by the way,
a subset of the things that CDSA can do.
Oops, skipped to him.
So on Mac OS X,
all of CDSA is implemented in a
framework called the Security Framework.
It's the place where you would
go to find the CSSM APIs and
all of those interfaces.
And it also provides all of the new
higher level layered service APIs such
as secure transport and any of the
functionality beginning with SEC,
the SEC prefix APIs that I'm going to
talk about a little more in detail.
At this point I have to give a caveat.
Those APIs, I don't believe,
are on the CD that was
handed out at the conference.
I don't think they made
it in for that version.
But if you look in the
security framework,
you'll see the CDSA APIs and then
you'll see a security.h header
which lists all of the other headers
that will be there very soon.
The security framework is part
of Darwin and is open source,
so you have the ability
to look at all this code.
One of the things that
we got as feedback,
certainly in previous
years that we've heard,
is people want the ability to
have factored out user interface.
So if their code, for example,
needs to be a faceless daemon or you
don't want to link your application
with all of the UI frameworks
and just keep it lean and mean,
we now provide the ability to do that.
So what we're calling the Sec APIs,
security APIs with that prefix,
are actually patterned after
the core foundation API.
If it looks familiar that's
because this is the model.
And in fact,
all of the objects that you deal
with when you're dealing with
the security APIs are CF objects.
So keychains, keychain items,
certificate wraps,
all can be dealt with in
a core foundation way.
You can use core foundation
interfaces to retain them, release them,
you can store them in a
CFArrays and so forth.
Like Core Foundation,
if an API has copy in its name,
you know that it's handing you back
an object that you need to release.
So a copy, a sec copy,
whatever the object is,
you'll have to call a CF release
on it when you're done.
If it's a sec get some
kind of object API,
then you don't need to release it.
When you're searching for
security-related objects,
the APIs will look familiar.
They'll be Sec, whatever the object is,
Search Ref,
and there'll be a Search API that
will give you back whatever that kind
of object is you're searching for.
The Sec APIs also provide the
ability to drill down below them
to get at some of the underlying
CSSM or actually CDSA objects.
One of the hardest parts of using
CDSA for most people is actually
figuring out how do I get a handle to
the CSP or the certificate library.
Those things are sometimes
a little bit difficult.
There are convenience APIs at
the Sec layer to actually
hand you back those objects.
So the Keychain Manager in
Carbon provides a level of functionality
that includes automatic user interface
and sort of high-level convenience
calls wrapped up in one package.
The SecKeychain APIs provide
the same level of functionality,
but they've been factored differently.
So you can call them and not
have to worry about linking,
as I said before, with UI layers.
There's also a sort of
expanded--it's a superset,
actually, of what the Carbon Keychain
Manager calls "provided you."
[Transcript missing]
The SecKeychain APIs expand on the
Carbon Keychain Manager APIs and add
more parameters so that you can specify
all the attributes of a keychain item.
Also, they provide the ability to let
you specify the access control.
So when you create an item
and store it in a keychain,
you can specify a list of
trusted applications that
have access to that item.
[Transcript missing]
In the X.509 world,
these certificates can form a chain,
and at the end of the chain
you have a leaf certificate,
which just certifies whoever's public
key that that certificate is issued to.
At the other end of the
chain is the issuer,
the final issuer, the root certificate,
which signs itself and
sort of certifies itself.
And then it can sign intermediate
certificates all the way down to
the leaf that form a trusted chain.
There can be self-signed certificates
which certify themselves.
You can have a root certificate that,
for example, is a certificate authority.
VeriSign, some of these other large
certificate authorities are familiar,
but you can also set up a certificate
yourself that you have trust in.
Generally, X.509 certificates are used
for things like making secure
connections via SSL when you're doing,
for example, an e-commerce transaction.
You connect to a server
that has an SSL certificate,
and that forms the basis
of a secure connection.
And they're also used for SMIME,
which is the standard for secure
email and encrypting email.
So with that, I'd like to introduce
Perry 'the Cynic' Kiehtreiber,
who's going to get more in depth
and tell you what is available
with certificates and trust.
Perry.
Somebody came after all.
You look kind of empty there for a while.
Oh yeah, certificates.
Well, as Ken told you,
there are a number of
different API objects in
the sec layer that we made.
But certificates certainly are
sort of... those in keychains
are the most important ones,
the ones that you're most
likely to get in contact with.
For now,
a sex certificate ref in the style
of Core Foundation represents
an X.509 certificate.
In the future,
it may also be able to represent others,
but 509 is what we do right now.
There's a couple of different
ways you can get one.
If you happen to have a certificate
lying around as a data blob,
you can just
call a creation function to make
a sec certificate from that blob.
I mean, certificates are flat,
unstructured data.
You can search for
certificates in your keychains,
in the user's keychains.
In any keychain, you'll care to name,
but by default,
in the ones that the user has set up.
Certificates can be stored in
keychains just fine and searched by
the various attributes that they have.
And sometimes you use API functions that,
as sort of a side effect
of their operation,
produce certificates that
may be of interest to you.
SecTrust is one of the examples
we'll look at a little bit later.
So once you have a SEC certificate, Raph,
what do you do with them?
You can use them in some
of the higher level APIs.
Certainly secure transport is one
of the better examples since SSL is
based on exchanging information during
handshake based on certificates.
Sometimes you need to feed
certificates in and sometimes it
can hand you back the certificates
that it got during its negotiations.
SEC trust is another example
because one of the major things
that you do with certificates,
arguably,
essentially the only thing you do with
them is to use them to establish whether
to trust someone to do something.
And certificates are also part
of what we call identities.
We'll talk about that a little bit later.
Identities are essentially
the personalities that a user,
or for that matter, a program has.
What else can you do?
As I said,
you can store them in keychains,
in one keychain or in any number
of keychains if you prefer,
and you can search for them based on,
you know, issue and other
attributes that they have.
Gee, there's SecTrust again.
And we also have a set of
UI APIs that allow you to display
certificate chains to the user,
either because you built them, they work,
and you want to show the user and say,
"This is what you got," or because
something went wrong and you want
to show the user the chain as
best as it could be built and say,
"This is what's wrong."
Oh yeah, certificates have absolutely
no access control.
And that's okay,
because they are public things.
They contain a public key,
and they contain some other attributes
that are signed with a private key.
The private key of the certificate
that certifies this one.
And so they are in a fairly
interesting way self-verifying.
In other words, you can hand them out.
You don't have to worry
about protecting them.
You don't have to worry about
keeping people from using them,
because the only use for a
certificate is to verify something.
Some operations, some relationship.
And for that, they can't be faked if
you follow the rules.
SecIdentity.
Well, as I said,
identities are sort of the
online representation of a user
identity in the public key sense.
A SAC identity consists of three parts:
a public key, a private key,
and a certificate.
The public key and the private key,
of course, go together.
They're an asymmetric key pair.
And the certificate is a certificate
that certifies the public key.
Now, these are not necessarily
stored in one blob somewhere.
They are actually stored
separately in keychains.
Now, typically,
they'll go into the same keychain,
but that's not technically required.
You can actually store, say,
the public key and the private
key in different keychains,
which sometimes makes
sense if you want harder,
better access control to the private key.
Access control, I said,
certificates don't have it,
public keys don't need it,
but of course the use of the private key,
which you would use for
signing and decrypting,
is controlled.
And so, to the extent that there is
access control for a SEC identity,
it is the access control of the
private key that's part of it.
I can never avoid giving good advice.
It's sometimes very tempting to do
your own security in your program,
your own access control to these things.
And I would really like
you to try not to do that.
Because any mechanism you put
into your own program will
only work in your own program.
And if
The private key, the identity,
it's actually stored in a keychain.
All that a bad user has to do is use
a different program to get at it.
If you're using the mechanisms
that are built into the CSSM stack
and into these functions,
they will apply no matter how
a user tries to get at these.
which is a heck of a lot better.
If you need interesting ways of
protecting access to your items,
we'll talk about SEC access
a little bit later,
which should give you more
than enough rope to hang
yourself in really interesting,
twisted ways.
Alright, SecTrust.
What's that for?
SecTrust is...
A little bit unusual in that it
doesn't really represent a data
object as much as an operation.
The primary thing you do with
certificates in the X.509 world
and for the most part all the
other worlds too is you are...
Trying to find out whether a
certificate that somebody handed
you really shows that you're
supposed to do something for him.
And the way this typically works is
first you check to see whether you
can actually build a certificate chain
from that certificate to an anchor,
a root that you trust.
And then you look up somewhere
in some database to see whether,
well, now that you've convinced yourself
that that certificate is valid,
whether this really means that you're
supposed to do what the guy asked for.
So there you have the steps.
You have to validate the certificate.
If it's not cryptographically valid,
then obviously you can't trust it.
And if you can convince
yourself that it is valid,
then you look it up in a database
to see if the user actually said
you should trust it for this
particular operation or not.
That sounds pretty complicated.
It is pretty complicated.
So what we've tried to do with
the SecTrust object is to make it,
well, as painless as possible
is what I like to say,
but as little painful as
possible is probably fairer.
Those of you who've tried to
actually write code to do this game,
certificate chain validation
and trust management,
know that it's not easy.
And it gets really
complicated really fast.
So keep that in mind.
We're trying to make this
as easy as we can for you,
given the complications.
So, as I said,
SecTrust is a workflow object.
So rather than representing
something on disk,
it represents an operation in progress.
You make a SecTrust object,
you stuff whatever parameters and
arguments and options you need into it,
and you tell it to evaluate,
and then you look at what it
can tell you about the result,
about what happened when
it tried to evaluate.
What can happen when you
evaluate a SEC trust?
If you're lucky, it actually worked,
meaning the certificate could
be validated as part of a
valid certificate chain.
And we looked it up in the database and
we could find out that the user said,
"Yeah, go ahead, do this."
Or he could have said, "Oh, no,
don't do this." Or he could have said,
"Um, ask me about this,
because I want to decide
each time separately what
I want to do about this." Or,
well, the user could just never have said
anything about this particular situation.
So that's the four valid
user choice outcomes.
But then again, maybe it didn't work.
And if it didn't work,
we actually helped you
distinguish between two different
major classes of failures.
Sometimes it sort of almost worked.
You can just almost feel that if
only this little thing here or
there could have been changed,
then it would have worked.
For example,
you can build a certificate chain,
it works just fine,
but the root is not trusted,
the root is not an anchor.
Or you try to build
your certificate chain,
and, well,
you're missing one in the middle.
You just can't build the chain.
But if only you could
find that certificate,
then everything might be fine.
We call those recoverable errors.
So if SecTrust Evaluate tells you
that you had a recoverable error,
then depending on what
kind of a user you have,
you may either just say, "Well,
this didn't work," and go away,
or you may want to bring up UI using
a UI function that we have provided
for you that will essentially
present to the user a certificate.
So you can compare the certificate
chain as it was built with little
annotations telling him what's wrong.
And you can give the user the
option to try to fix things.
On the other hand, sometimes things just
don't work out at all,
and we call those fatal errors,
basically.
If the certificate is
corrupt on its face,
then there isn't really
anything you can fix about it.
It's just broken, you know.
You hope that it was just
a bad download somewhere.
You hope it's not an attacker
trying to fake you out.
But in any case, it's broken.
That's fatal.
Whether you have success or failure,
there is a raftload of additional
information you can get out of
SecTrust once it has evaluated.
If you are interested in
this on the technical level,
you can retrieve the certificate
chain as SecCertificates,
of course.
You can get information about
each certificate as to whether it
was valid or why it wasn't valid.
And you can get some other
sideband information.
Whether you're actually
interested in this depends,
again, on what you're planning on doing.
If you are dealing with a naive user
and this isn't really your main job,
you're just using this
for trust validation,
you probably just want to
ignore that information,
and that's fine.
If you think you have an expert user
who wants to know about these things,
call the UI function,
present the result to the user.
That's probably the
easiest thing you can do.
If you're writing a program whose main
job in life is to deal with certificates,
then you may actually want to walk
through these results yourself and
try to figure out what's going on.
So, it depends on your purpose in life,
or your programs at least.
After you make a SecTrust object,
what are the parameters you can stuff
in there to change the way it works?
The first and probably most
interesting thing is a policy.
Policies are sets of rules
determining exactly when a certificate
chain is considered to be valid.
Different scenarios have different rules.
For example,
SSL and SMIME have different rules
on exactly what constitutes validity.
They're not dramatically different,
but they're different enough that you
have to tell the system the difference
and tell it exactly what you want.
Some policies have policy
parameters that you have to pass in.
For example,
SSL requires that you specify the
URL of the server because it actually
needs to compare the URL embedded
in the certificate against the one
that you actually connected to.
And if those mismatch,
then technically your
certificate is no good,
even though many browsers
I could name just don't care.
Another thing you can do if you
have additional certificates that
could be useful to build the chain,
then pass them in.
That's strictly for the use
of the system as it sees fit,
so pass in lots of certificates
if you think they can be useful.
In some situations, like SSL,
you actually get certificates
out of the negotiation process
and you want to pass those in,
obviously.
You can also specify keychains to be
searched for additional certificates.
Now, by default, you get the default
search list of the user,
which is almost always the right thing.
Basically, the user has a preference
of its keychains,
his keychains, her keychains, whatever.
Sometimes you want to change that.
Sometimes you want to
just not search those,
and so you pass an empty list in.
Sometimes you want to add a
special keychain of yours that the
user doesn't normally deal with.
So you can do that.
And while we provide a default
set of anchor certificates,
trusted roots, if you have your own,
you can certainly add it and
make it also be trusted as a
root of a certificate chain.
You do that either because
you're a little bit of a
hacker and you made your own,
or because you are part of
an organization that has
its own certificate chains.
And you want the corporate
certificates to be trusted,
too.
All right, so second step in this game,
as I said, after you've verified that
the certificate chain works,
is you look up the certificate and
the operation in some database.
Well, we have a database for you,
and it's called the User Trust Database.
It's actually stored
in the user's keychain,
so it's a per-user kind of thing,
since obviously every user has a
different idea of who you want to trust.
And for the most part,
it tends to be handled pretty
much automatically for you if
you're using the UI functions.
Basically,
You start a user with an empty slate,
nothing specified.
So any SecTrust evaluation
comes out with "I don't know,
user didn't say," which most
programs will map to "ask the
user." So you ask the user.
And the user, in addition to saying,
"Yeah, go ahead," or "No,
don't do that," can, in that UI,
basically specify what he
wants to happen the next time.
I mean, this is the classical, "Well,
yeah, from now on,
always," or "From now on,
never," or "Well,
ask me again next time."
So in simple scenarios,
you don't actually have to worry
about this particular slide,
because the user will just be able
to fix his own database just fine.
If, for some reason,
you actually need explicit access to it,
you can, and that's called the
SecUserTrust functions.
It's basically just a get
function and a set function.
You specify a certificate.
You specify an operation code.
And that's all there is to it.
The values associated with each
certificate and operation are of course,
you know, yes, no, ask, or not specified,
the same ones that we've
talked about before.
The Apple CDSA framework
contains libraries that allow the
interpretation of X.509 certificates
and provides examples of common ways
to use these new APIs to provide
additional value to your customers.
Ken McLeod, Perry 'the Cynic' Kiehtreiber
Here's just an example they
slipped in for how the UI looks
like for managing these.
If you need to explicitly manage them,
but all you need to do is have the user
edit the setting for a particular one,
you can actually call a function that
just puts this up for you and asks the
user so you don't have to do your own UI.
Enough about certificates.
Access control is so much fun.
It's basically about keeping
people from doing things.
And you get paid for that, too.
CFSM,
which in this session and the previous
one everybody has been happy to tell you,
is a really complicated beast.
It's got very,
very many functions that all have
to be called in interesting ways.
And so of course it's not surprising that
it also has an access control facility.
That one is based on
access control lists,
ACLs, as we all call them.
[Transcript missing]
This is pretty much the
minimum you need to know.
So let's see.
We're using, CSSM uses,
a lock-and-key approach.
Basically, you set up a type of lock,
and the user has to provide a
corresponding key to unlock,
and thereby permit an operation.
The locks are called subjects,
that's just what they're called,
and the keys are called samples.
Access control lists are
attached to keychains,
to keys, and to some items in keychains.
It doesn't matter what
they're attached to.
The mechanisms are all the same.
So the rules for setting up ACLs,
evaluating ACLs, determining whether an
operation is allowed or not,
doesn't depend on what kind
of object is being protected.
That's good.
It means you don't have to
worry about details here.
Each access control list
maps operations to subjects.
Basically, for each operation,
you can specify the lock, the protection,
that needs to be opened up in
order to perform this operation.
So, for example,
you could theoretically say things like,
"In order to encrypt with this key,
you need to provide this password.
And in order to decrypt with this key,
put up a dialogue and ask the user." And,
by the way,
this application over there is
allowed to sign with this key
without having to do anything else.
That would be one ACL configuration.
A little bit strange,
but certainly possible.
In addition to subjects and access
controls for each operation,
there is one special
entry called the owner,
which is the permission to
actually change the ACL itself.
So access control lists are
protected by themselves,
by the same ACL mechanism.
There are theoretically an unlimited
number of different subject types
because you can write your own.
CSSM specifies about a dozen types,
of which I think we've
implemented four or five,
plus three or four Apple-specific ones.
But the most important ones that you
will come across are user confirmation,
which is basically put up a dialogue
and ask the user whether it's okay.
You have application identity,
which basically means if you
happen to be that application,
you're allowed to do this.
And simple passphrases,
which have nothing to do with
the passphrases to keychains.
They are extra passphrases you
can put onto items to guard them.
Well,
how simple can we make this for you?
We have SecAccessRef objects.
A SecAccess object is all the
access controls on an item.
It basically represents the
entire ACL complete with
owner and all the trimmings.
So, as long as you manipulate
SecAccess objects,
at least you're not going to
drop half of the information
somewhere along the wayside.
SecAccess objects are not
tied to a particular item.
They are valid on their own,
which means that you can derive them from
one object and apply them to another,
or you can derive them from an object,
change them,
and reapply them to make a change,
or you can make them from
scratch and then apply them.
The two major ways of making them are
either retrieving the current access
control configuration from an item,
and again, it doesn't matter,
it can be a keychain, a key,
a protected item in a keychain,
or you can create it from scratch and
then populate it with your information.
The uses are you can apply
a SecAccess to an item,
which essentially changes its
access control configuration to
be like the SecAccess specifies.
Or you can pass it to an
item creation function,
which will make the configuration
specified by the SecAccess to
be the initial value of the
access control for the item.
And by retrieving it from one item
and then applying it to another,
you can copy access controls.
So you can essentially say,
make this one protected just
like that one over there.
You need to know a little bit about
what's inside of a SAC access.
Each SAC access contains
one or more SAC ACL objects.
The name is probably not optimal,
but that's what they're called right now.
So you have SAC ACL ref objects that
you can retrieve from a SAC access ref.
And basically, each SAC ACL applies to
one particular operation.
So you can have one for
encrypting and one for decrypting,
or one for inserting
and one for deleting,
or whatever your pleasure is.
Up to this point, this represents the
full complexity of CSSM.
You can have some
hacker made up a really,
really complicated access
control list for an item.
That works just fine because
the machinery that's actually
implementing this stuff is completely
general and fully functional.
The problem comes when you're
actually retrieving this from an
item and you want to understand
what this access control list means.
Because if it's really complicated,
you'd actually have to understand
all of the CSSM ACL machinery,
which most of you probably want to avoid.
So what we've given you is a small
subset that just happens to include
all of the ACLs that are being
set up by default by our system.
So as long as you don't have a hacker
doing really interesting things,
the simple subset of access control
lists will work just fine for you.
We call those simple,
and there is a function to take the
simple contents out of a SAC ACL ref.
And as an error,
you'll get back if the contents
happen not to be simple,
in which case, depending on your purpose,
you can either give up or you
can mark it as being complicated
and not understandable.
Or, well, whatever else you want to do.
Simple XACLs,
simple access controls for an operation,
simply consist of a list of applications
that are allowed to do the operation
without any further restrictions.
And if the requester happens to
be not one of those applications,
then the user will be prompted.
Now, most of you who have used
OS X have seen this happen.
If you are trying to access
an item in a keychain,
you tend to get this dialogue that says,
you know, typically what application
so-and-so wants to do this and
that operation with item so-and-so.
Do you want to allow it once?
Do you want to allow it always?
Or do you want to deny it?
That's exactly what a simple ACL is.
Basically, you get the dialogue if none
of the applications in the list
happens to be the one that you're
running to make the request.
So the options you have in terms of
information is you have the item name,
which is actually stored
as part of the ACL.
That is the name that guides the
item so-and-so in the dialog.
And you have a couple of
options that's new for Jaguar.
Specifically,
you're going to have an option
in Jaguar to either just have a
dialog that lets the user say yes,
no, always, or you can force the user to
re-enter the keychain passphrase.
A lot of people have asked for that,
and so we've put it in.
It's an option.
Let me just emphasize that one more time.
If you are running into a complex ACL,
which simply means a not simple one,
try to leave it alone.
Don't just go,
"I don't understand this," and replace
it with something you understand.
In particular,
you can copy complex ACLs from one
item to another just fine by just
retrieving a sec access from one
item and then applying it to another.
That works.
You just can't decompose it with the
simple API because they're not simple.
Oh my, summary already.
Okay, well,
most of these sec functions are new.
They're all new for you because
they were private last time around.
That means that they're
not there in 10.1.
And if you want your code to
work in 10.1 and 10.2 together,
unfortunately, you can't call them.
Well, that's what happens with new APIs.
You're pretty much stuck with
the KC layer if you want to write
10.1 and 10.2 compatible code,
unless, of course,
you want to have different code paths.
They're sitting in
between the old KC layer,
which is part of Carbon,
always part of Carbon,
and the CSSM layer,
a little bit more towards
the top than the bottom.
And that's probably how
you should think of them.
They are easier than CSSM and
more flexible than KC.
We hope that for many of you it's just
about the right level of abstraction and
just about the right level of simplicity.
But let us know.
We're certainly always interested
in finding out where you want to go.
And nobody forces you to
actually use them all,
really.
I mean, there's no code in there that
checks to make sure you call
each of them at least once.
So, pick the one that sounds
like what you want,
call it, ignore the rest, and, uh...
If you know a little bit about CDSA,
whether that's because you like it
or because somebody forced you to,
you are definitely
welcome to mix and match.
For example,
Ken talked about the bridge functions.
Basically, for each abstract
API object in the sec layer,
sec_keychain_refs, sec_item_refs,
sec_key_refs, sec_certificate_refs,
there are functions that allow you
to retrieve associated CSSM objects.
Often, if what you're trying to do isn't
quite covered by the Sec APIs,
you can get away with 95%
Sec code and one of those bridge
calls and one or two CSSM calls,
which is a heck of a lot easier
than doing it all in CSSM.
So don't think of this as all or nothing.
Think of it as sort of a flexible
continuum that you can walk around in.
Technically, you can call KC APIs,
use the resulting handles in Sec APIs,
get a CSSM handle,
do a little bit of management down there,
move back up, use Sec.
That actually works.
It's all for you.
Try to use it.
And, well, avoid micromanagement.
I said this a few times already,
but let me say it one more time.
We've put facilities in there,
access controls, certificate management,
trust management,
that we think are about right as
a shared facility in the system.
Every time you go off and you
do your own in your program,
your program becomes a little bit more
different from all the others around it.
Maybe right now that doesn't matter
because you're the only application
that's going to do this particular thing.
But every time you go off
and do your own thing,
rather than relying on trust management,
certificate management,
identity management that we provide,
you'll get farther away from the
shared system facilities that
make your program work well with
other programs in the system.
There are situations where you have to,
because what you do is just
different or weird or special.
But before you just go off and write
your own code to do this stuff,
think about it a little bit.
See if maybe what you want is
something that's more like a standard,
but not something that's just a standard.
Just a variant of the normal behavior.
Your users will probably
thank you in the end.
There's Craig again,
except his email is missing.
But I suppose you're
supposed to send him email.
Another slide.
Ah, there he is.
Well, we're one session
further down the roadmap.
You've already missed
1.13 if you weren't there.
That was before now.
And you've suddenly missed authorization.
CF Network is of interest to you if
you're doing things like web servers
and stuff that does networking.
Its only connection to security
really is if you're using SSL.
CF Network, if you do HTTPS,
is using secure transport.
Kerberos, if you're really interested in
ways of authenticating users,
that might be of interest.
And of course,
if you thought this presentation really,
really, really stinks,
then go to the feedback
forum and tell us about it.
More stuff, I mean,
go to developer.apple.com and you
can probably find most of this.
And, yeah, this is all open source.
Well, no.
Not the UI stuff.
But the UI stuff is, you know, Aqua,
liquidly, soft, and all that.
That's OS X.
But everything underneath is Darwin.
So, go, take a look.
If you're wondering how this all works,
take a printout to lunch.
Have fun.